Hello, this is the first short text tutorial on the voltbuild mod. All readers are expected to already know the basics of minetest,
such as mining and crafting.



----------------ABOUT TREETAP AND RUBBER TREES:
One of the things easily confusing to a beginner is where do I get rubber? Maybe you don't even know what rubber is. That's fine.
This tutorial is here to help. Now, one of the most important things to know to someone begining to play with this mod is to know
how to make a treetap. For this, you will need 5 Wooden Planks (default:wood). You place one wooden plank in the top middle,
3 wooden planks in middle row, and 1 wooden plank in the bottom right.

Craft a treetap by placing the wood planks in this order
P = wooden plank

 P 
PPP
  P

With your new tree tap, go looking for a rubber tree. They are easily identified by their light green leaves that are more bright
than the default tree leaves. Keep in mind that if you added this mod to an older world that you'll have to go to a part of the
world that hasn't generated yet. Once you do find a rubber tree though, you can of course chop it down like a regular tree to
get wooden planks and have the leaves drop rubber tree sapplings. What you may be wondering now is why even have rubber trees
if they just seem to craft into regular wooden planks. Well, there are some rubber tree nodes that have an orange circle or dot
on them. Looking for this orange circle is very important and is why you crafted a treetap. The orange circle can appear on 
any side of a rubber tree node, so it's important to look at all four sides. When you find this orange circle, equip your
treetap and right click on the rubber tree node with the orange circle. If done correctly, you should notice the circle is no
longer orange and that there's an item that has been dropped on the ground. Pick up this new item because when you cook
sticky resin in a furnace, you get rubber. Once you have collected the sticky resin from a rubber tree node, you can leave that
tree node alone and it'll end up filling up with more sticky resin eventually. Just keep in mind that any rubber tree node that
you chop or dig up will no longer be able to produce sticky resin and probably won't even drop a sticky resin, even if it had
the orange circle. This makes a tree tap and growing rubber trees important in the beginning.

If you're having trouble finding the orange circle, you can always look at and zoom in on the itest_rubber_hole_full.png in the 
textures folder of this mod.



------------FIRST BASE:
You're probably eager to start seeing what this mod can do. Well first, you'll need to do a bit of mining and exploring
to get a basic setup. Any ingots you see in the recipe are made by cooking their lump version in a furnace. For example,
you get Tin Ingot by cooking a Tin Lump in a Furnace.

Required Materials:
2 Gravel (default:gravel)
32 Sand (default:sand)
3 Desert Stone (default:desert_stone)
6 Copper Ingot (default:copper_ingot)
16 Steel Ingot (default:steel_ingot))
6 Rubber (voltbuild:rubber)
8 Tin Ingot (voltbuild:tin_ingot)
2 Furnaces (default:furnace)
some Coal (default:coal_lump)
1 Iron Lump (default:iron_lump)           NOTE: Any other ore can do. This is for use inside the Macerator.


Once you have the Required Materials, then you can begin building a simple base. The first step is to use one of those furnaces 
for cooking. Place the 16 Steel Ingot into the furnace and cook them into Refined Iron Ingot. From those Refined Iron Ingot,
make 2 Machine.

R = Refined Iron Ingot

RRR
R R
RRR

Once you have those 2 Machine, start making 12 Uninsulated copper cable.

C = Copper Ingot

CCC

With those 12 Uninsulated copper cable, make 6 Insulated copper cable

C = Uninsulated copper cable
R = Rubber

CR

Now with the 6 Insulated copper cable and 8 Tin Ingot you can make 2 RE Battery

C = Insulated copper cable
T = Tin Ingot

 C
TCT
TCT

With 1 RE Battery, 1 Machine, and 1 Furnace, you can make your first generator

R = RE Battery
M = Machine
F = Furnace

R
M
F

Now with the 32 Sand, make 8 Sandstone

S = Sand

SS
SS

With the 8 Sandstone, make 2 Sandstone Brick

S = Sandstone

SS
SS

Now, with the 2 Sandstone Brick, 2 Gravel, 1 RE Battery, 3 Desert Stone, and that last 1 Machine make
your first macerator.

S = Sandstone Brick
G = Gravel
R = RE Battery
D = Desert Stone
M = Machine

GRG
SMS
DDD

With all these things built, you can now finally make a basic electric setup with your Macerator, Generator, Coal, and
Uninsulated copper cable.

First, place your Generator. Then, right next to your generator, place a Uninsulated copper cable. If done correctly,
it should look like the Uninsulated copper cable is connected to your Generator. When the Uninsulated copper cable is
not connected to anything, it will just look like a floating orange cube that doesn't touch anything. Now with the
Uninsulated copper cable placed in the node right next to the Generator, go ahead and place your Macerator right next
to the Uninsulated copper cable. If you correctly place the Macerator, the Uninsulated copper cable will appear to 
connect to it. With the Uninsulated copper cable connected to both the Generator and the Macerator, place 1 Coal into
the Generator. When done correctly, you should see flames on the front of your Generator just like a Furnace does.
While the Coal is burning, notice how the bar right in the middle top fills up. The left side is red and as it progresses,
it becomes white on the right side. This bar is the energy bar. Inside every machine in this mod, it shows how much energy
is currently in that machine. Now, when the Generator stopped burning coal, you should've noticed it went back to empty
(a color similar to the default grey of inventory squares). This means the Generator no longer contains any energy. That
is because the Generator sends any energy stored in it onto any connected cables or machines. Now, if you take a look at
the Macerator, you should now notice that same red to white bar in it. However, this time it is in a slightly different
spot. This red to white bar is still the energy bar, which means your Macerator now has power so it can function. Take
your Iron Lump and place it into the Macerator. You'll start noticing that the yellow bar in the top center is filling
up with Red. This is the progress bar that shows how far along the Macerator has come. When the red reaches the end,
the bar will go back to yellow and your Iron Lump will be gone. However, in the four squares to the right of the yellow
bar, you'll now notice you have 2 Iron dust. With these 2 Iron dust, you can place them into a Furnace and get 2 Steel
Ingot. This is the benefit of the Macerator. You use electricity in order to get double the amount of ingots from most
ores. As you can see, the energy bar is now a little less than half way empty, showing only red. In order to fill it
back up, you'll have to put another Coal into the Generator. 

At this point, you have constructed and used your first electric base. Continue to enjoy this mod and build upon your
first electric base, or even create other bases. There's still plenty other machines to build, including alternatives
to your Generator. From this point on, use the other documentation, including the crafts.txt, to figure out what you
want to do. If you want an alternative to the Generator, check out the generators.txt to see which alternatives are
avaialable and then search for that alternative's recipe in the crafts.txt file. If you want other machines that can
use electricity to do things for you, check out the consumers.txt file. If you choose to start building the consumers,
you'll probably want to start mining for mese. Just remember, have fun!
